## INT

### INTEGER Type

> The keyword INT is a synonym for INTEGER.

Possible values: -2147483648 to 2147483647.

Mapped to `java.lang.Integer`. The binary representation is a 4 byte integer with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sorts before positive values).

Example:

INTEGER

### UNSIGNED_INT Type

Possible values: 0 to 2147483647. Mapped to `java.lang.Integer`. The binary representation is a 4 byte integer, matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(int) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_INT

### BIGINT Type

Possible values: -9223372036854775807 to 9223372036854775807. Mapped to `java.lang.Long`. The binary representation is an 8 byte long with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sorts before positive values).

Example:

BIGINT

### UNSIGNED_LONG Type

Possible values: 0 to 9223372036854775807. Mapped to `java.lang.Long`. The binary representation is an 8 byte integer, matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(long) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_LONG

### TINYINT Type

Possible values: -128 to 127. Mapped to `java.lang.Byte`. The binary representation is a single byte, with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sorts before positive values).

Example:

TINYINT

### UNSIGNED_TINYINT Type

Possible values: 0 to 127. Mapped to `java.lang.Byte`. The binary representation is a single byte, matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(byte) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_TINYINT

### SMALLINT Type

Possible values: -32768 to 32767. Mapped to `java.lang.Short`. The binary representation is a 2 byte short with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sort before positive values).

Example:

SMALLINT

### UNSIGNED_SMALLINT Type

Possible values: 0 to 32767. Mapped to `java.lang.Short`. The binary representation is an 2 byte integer, matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(short) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_SMALLINT

## FLOAT

### FLOAT Type

Possible values: -3.402823466 E + 38 to 3.402823466 E + 38. Mapped to `java.lang.Float`. The binary representation is an 4 byte float with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sort before positive values).

Example:

FLOAT

### UNSIGNED_FLOAT Type

Possible values: 0 to 3.402823466 E + 38. Mapped to `java.lang.Float`. The binary representation is an 4 byte float matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(float) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_FLOAT

### DOUBLE Type

Possible values: -1.7976931348623158 E + 308 to 1.7976931348623158 E + 308. Mapped to `java.lang.Double`. The binary representation is an 8 byte double with the sign bit flipped (so that negative values sort before positive value).

Example:

DOUBLE

### UNSIGNED_DOUBLE Type

Possible values: 0 to  1.7976931348623158 E + 308. Mapped to `java.lang.Double`. The binary representation is an 8 byte double matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(double) method. The purpose of this type is to map to existing `HBase` data that was serialized using this `HBase` utility method. If that is not the case, use the regular signed type instead.

Example:

UNSIGNED_DOUBLE

### DECIMAL Type

Data type with fixed precision and scale. The maximum precision is 18 digits. Mapped to `java.math.BigDecimal`. The binary representation is binary comparable, variable length format. When used in a row key, it is terminated with a null byte unless it is the last column.

Example:

DECIMAL

## Other

### BOOLEAN Type

Possible values: `TRUE` and `FALSE`.

Mapped to `java.lang.Boolean`. The binary representation is a single byte with 0 for false and 1 for true

Example:

BOOLEAN

### TIME Type

The time data type. The format is yyyy-`MM`-dd hh:mm:ss, with both the date and time parts maintained. Mapped to `java.sql.Time`. The binary representation is an 8 byte long (the number of milliseconds from the epoch).

Example:

TIME

### DATE Type

The date data type. The format is yyyy-`MM`-dd hh:mm:ss, with both the date and time parts maintained to a millisecond accuracy. Mapped to `java.sql.Date`. The binary representation is an 8 byte long (the number of milliseconds from the epoch).

Example:

DATE

### TIMESTAMP Type

The timestamp data type. The format is yyyy-`MM`-dd hh:mm:ss[.nnnnnnnnn]. Mapped to `java.sql.Timestamp` with an internal representation of the number of nanos from the epoch. The binary representation is 12 bytes: an 8 byte long for the epoch time plus a 4 byte integer for the nanos.

Example:

TIMESTAMP

### VARCHAR Type

A variable length String with an optional max byte length. The binary representation is `UTF8` matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(String) method. When used in a row key, it is terminated with a null byte unless it is the last column.

Mapped to `java.lang.String`.

Example:

VARCHAR
VARCHAR(255)

### CHAR Type

A fixed length String with single-byte characters. The binary representation is `UTF8` matching the `HBase` Bytes.toBytes(String) method.

Mapped to `java.lang.String`.

Example:

CHAR(10)

### BINARY Type

Raw fixed length byte array.

Mapped to `byte[]`.

Example:

BINARY

### VARBINARY Type

Raw variable length byte array.

Mapped to `byte[]`.

Example:

VARBINARY